Current internet trends
#######################
:date: 2009-04-12 20:20
:author: Alex
:tags: general, science, web

Visualization

================

If you remember movie "Minority report", you may be delighted to know
that interface featured in this movie is available for linux and mac,
see demo video on http://oblong.com/ . There is an ongoing work to move
this interface into wearable devices, see presentation on TED
http://bit.ly/FOupJ

Building 3D social networks

========================

Croquet IDE http://www.opencroquet.org/index.php/Main\_Page . Software
development kit for building 3D multi-user virtual world, similar to
Second Life. See demo on the link - it shows that web programming
doesn't mean typing commands. Can it be our next alumni website?

Extend twitter

==============

You possibly heard about twitter.com on radio or read about it in
newspaper. This is a service which limits your post to 140 characters.
But you may overlook that there are services like twitter, with source
code available for free, see http://identi.ca/ code is available for
download at http://laconi.ca/trac/ .

Jaiku is another microblogging service running on google app engine
http://www.jaiku.com/ with source code available at
http://code.google.com/p/jaikuengine/

There is a project which extends an idea of microblogging with location
aware services http://cloud27.com/, which is powered by
http://pinaxproject.com/

Cloud computing

===============

I mentioned google app engine earlier and this is representative of the
modern trend called cloud computing or to be more precise software as
services (SaaS). Cloud computing is reincarnation of very old idea of
per hour usage of virtual machine (do you remember the old PL or IBM
mainframes on which you can use 2 Mb RAM by hour only?). Pioneered by
amazon elastic cloud (Amazon EC) which produced a service to allow
people to hire virtual server on their premises and pay as little as 10
pence per hour. Here is an example how scientists are using cloud
computing http://bit.ly/1KkWNR for intensive computation.

There are several interesting projects:

Amazon EC2 compatible open source projects are: http://enomalism.com/
and http://eucalyptus.cs.ucsb.edu/

Google App engine compatible open source project:
http://code.google.com/p/appscale/

VPN solution

========================

Moving your own infrastructure on somebody's else premises can cause
some security issues and one of them can be addressed using Cohesive VPN
Cubed http://www.cohesiveft.com/vpncubed/ which claims to be secure
openvpn based solution and easily be deployed in distributed fashion. We
are in process of preparing trial with Cohesive to run it on our
equipment, so if you would like to contribute, please contact me.

Bookmarking and collaboration service

=====================================

There is a yahoo own delicious.com service, which allow you to bookmark,
assign a tag to the links and share them between your computers or
friends. But recently emerged service which not only allow your to
bookmark and share link, but add sticky notes or on the page and save
and share this notes as well. See http://www.diigo.com.
